Highlights:

Oil plays receive a minor bump to IRR as gas plays continue to slip
Marcellus Wet has been split into two separate plays, to account for multiple natural gas price points
As the STACK play develops, returns are proving to be impressive
In March 2016, the average of the 12-month forward curve for WTI was $40.72/barrel, up $3.41/barrel from the month prior providing some support to internal rates of return (IRR) for oil-rich plays. Returns in oil-rich basins lifted about three percentage points, with the largest gain observed in the Permian Delaware, which rose from 10.3% to 13.7% and continues to lead the stack. The 12-month forward curve for Henry Hub dropped over $0.25/MMbtu from last month, causing the gas-rich plays to suffer about a two percentage point drop in IRRs.

For the March IRR analysis, Bentek has created two different IRRs for the Marcellus Wet to more accurately capture the impact of the different pricing points within the region. The two primary pricing hubs chosen for the play, due to their disparity, are TCO Appalachia which has a current 12-month average price of $2.07/MMbtu and Dominion South which has a current 12-month average price of $1.37/MMbtu. The Marcellus Wet (TCO App) location yields a March IRR of -0.6%, while the Marcellus Wet (Dom S) comes in significantly lower for the same month at -6.9%. The reason for breaking out the play is to show the impact that regional pipeline constraints can have with respect to accessing various price hubs.

It’s important to note that some of the producers in the Northeast are leaning on hedges to maintain drilling. Based on the company’s most recent earnings statement, Antero Resources, anticipates 2016 returns in the Northeast to vary between 47%-83% (after hedges), thanks to maintaining a realized gas prices close to $4.00/MMbtu (after hedges).

Bentek has also added a new play, the STACK located in Oklahoma, into the March IRR analysis. As producers juggle decisions around reduced capital spending, 2016 production expectations and the most economic areas to drill, it is becoming evident that the STACK play offers promising returns. Producers such as Continental Resources, Devon Energy and Newfield Exploration continue to emphasize strong returns in their acreage positions within the STACK. Continental Resources, a prominent producer in the play, recently announced plans to defer the majority of its completions in the Williston basin in order to focus on its over-pressured window in the STACK. The company went on to state its position in the play offers strong production uplift compared to normally pressured wells. As a result of over-pressured natural gas volumes, the company reported 30-day oil initial production (IP) rates in excess of 1,300 b/d and 30-day gas IP rates of 3,560 Mcf/d. Devon Energy, which recently acquired highly coveted acreage in the play from Felix Energy, reported on five wells with average 30-day IP rates of 1,896 Boe/d. Finally, Newfield, one of the first E&Ps to develop the play, reported 30-day IP rates of 1,122 Boe/d consisting of 64% oil. However, high variability among acreage positions in the play often result in large swings in production mix making the drilling decision more challenging as producers continue to develop the play. Bentek estimates that a typical well in the STACK costs $7.0 million to drill and complete, roughly $700,000 less than its counterpart the SCOOP also located in Oklahoma.